################################################################################
#                                                                              #
#                        Splunk On Splunk 3.x (S.o.S)                          #
#          A Splunk app to analyze your Splunk Enterprise deployment           #
#                                                                              #
################################################################################

################################################################################
# Introduction
################################################################################

Splunk On Splunk is an app that uses Splunk diagnostic tools to analyze and
troubleshoot a Splunk Enterprise installation. It is a tool for analyzing and
monitoring the health of your Splunk Enterprise installation and diagnosing any
problems that might arise.

S.o.S searches data that is present on your Splunk Enterprise indexers and 
search-heads. Within most S.o.S views, you can select the Splunk search-head or
search-peer to analyze.

S.o.S contains views and tooling that allow you to:

  o View a graphical representation of your Splunk Enterprise deployment 
    topology.
  o View, search and compare Splunk Enterprise configuration files.
  o Examine memory and CPU statistics for Splunk Web, Splunk Enterprise servers,
    and search processes.
  o Detect and expose errors and anomalies in your installation, including
    inspection of crash logs.
  o Review and analyze data inputs, including file monitor inputs.
  o Measure indexing performance and expose event processing bottlenecks.
  o View details of scheduler and user-driven search activity.
  o Analyze data volume metrics captured by Splunk Enterprise.
  o View details of a Splunk Enterprise cluster and troubleshoot index
    replication.

View detailed installation and configuration information for S.o.S from the
Splunk manual "Troubleshooting with Splunk on Splunk," available at:

     http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/SoS/3.2/SoSGuide

################################################################################
# Requirements
################################################################################

   * S.o.S is supported on the following versions of Splunk Enterprise:
     o Splunk Enterprise 5.0.x
     o Splunk Enterprise 6.0.x
     
   * S.o.S is fully supported on the following platforms:
     o Linux
     o Solaris
     o Windows

   * S.o.S requires the Sideview Utils app version 1.1.7 or later. Install or 
     update Sideview Utils before you install S.o.S.


################################################################################
# Installation instructions
################################################################################

1) If Sideview Utils version 1.1.7 (or later) is not installed, install or 
   update it before installing S.o.S

   You can install Sideview Utils directly from Splunk Web:

       1. From Splunk Web select Apps > Find more apps.
       2. Search for "Sideview Utils."
       3. Select Sideview Utils (LGPL).
       4. Click Install Free.
       5. Enter your login credentials or click Install.

   You can download S.o.S from Splunk Apps and install from Splunk Web:

       1. In a browser, navigate to http://apps.splunk.com/app/466/
       2. Click Download to download the app as a tarball file.
       3. From Splunk Web, select Apps > Manage Apps.
       4. Click Install App From File.
       5. Navigate to the tarball file and click Upload.

   You can unpack the installation tarball file in place in your Splunk 
   Enterprise installation:

       1. In a browser, navigate to http://apps.splunk.com/app/466/
       2. Click Download to download the app as a tarball file.
       3. Copy the tarball file to the following location:
          $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/
       4. Unpack the tarball.
          This creates the sideview_utils directory, which contains the app.
       5. (Optional) Delete the tarball file.
       6. Restart Splunk Enterprise.

2) Install S.o.S

   When you install S.o.S in a distributed deployment, make sure you install
   S.o.S on the search-head only. From the search-head S.o.S can discover search
   peers present in the distributed deployment.

   You can install S.o.S directly from Splunk Web:

       1. From Splunk Web select Apps > Find more apps.
       2. Search for "Splunk on Splunk."
       3. Select S.o.S - Splunk on Splunk.
       4. Click Install Free.
       5. Enter your login credentials or click Install.

   You can download S.o.S from Splunk Apps and install from Splunk Web:

       1. In a browser, navigate to http://apps.splunk.com/app/748/
       2. Click Download to download the app as a tarball file.
       3. From Splunk Web, select Apps > Manage Apps.
       4. Click Install App From File.
       5. Navigate to the tarball file and click Upload.

   You can unpack the installation tarball file in place in your Splunk 
   Enterprise installation:

       1. In a browser, navigate to http://apps.splunk.com/app/748/
       2. Click Download to download the app as a tarball file.
       3. Copy the tarball file to the following location:
          $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/
       4. Unpack the tarball.
          This creates the sos directory, which contains the app.
       5. (Optional) Delete the tarball file.
       6. Restart Splunk Enterprise.


################################################################################
# S.o.S Configuration instructions
################################################################################

1) [ON WINDOWS SYSTEMS ONLY] Enable local PowerShell script execution on all
    Windows servers that run the Splunk on Splunk app and on any search peers.
    Read "Enable local PowerShell script execution on Windows servers" below
    for instructions.

2) Enable the data input scripts that gather memory and CPU statistics for
   Splunk Web, splunkd, and search processes.

   Note: The data gathered by these data inputs counts against the daily
   licensed volume.

   From Splunk Web:

     1. (Splunk Enterprise 5.x) Go to Manager > Data Inputs > Scripts.

       or

     1. (Splunk Enterprise 6.0.x) Go to Settings > Data Inputs > Scripts.

     2. Enable the following data input:

        ps_sos.sh (on Unix/Linux)
        lsof_sos.sh (on Unix/Linux)
        ps_sos.ps1 (on Windows)


   From inputs.conf:

     1. From a terminal window, navigate to the following location:

         $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/sos/

     2. Navigate to the local directory.
        Create the directory if it does not exist.

     3. Create or update inputs.conf with the following entries:

        [script://./bin/ps_sos.sh]
        disabled = 0

        [script://./bin/lsof_sos.sh]
        disabled = 0

        # Windows platforms
        [script://./bin/ps_sos.ps1]
        disabled = 0

     4. Run the following command to reload your changes to inputs.conf.

         $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk _internal \
         call /services/data/inputs/script/_reload

     Note: You do not have to restart Splunk Enterprise. 


   From the Splunk Enterprise CLI:

     1. Run the following commands from a terminal window:

      On Unix/Linux:

      $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk _internal call \
      '/servicesNS/nobody/sos/data/inputs/script/.%252Fbin%252Fps_sos.sh' \
      -post:disabled 0 

      $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk _internal call \
      '/servicesNS/nobody/sos/data/inputs/script/.%252Fbin%252Flsof_sos.sh' \
      -post:disabled 0 


      On Windows:

      %SPLUNK_HOME%\bin\splunk _internal call 
      '/servicesNS/nobody/sos/data/inputs/script/.%252Fbin%252Fps_sos.ps1' 
      -post:disabled 0
  

3) (Optional) Download and install the Splunk on Splunk Add-ons for UNIX, Linux
   or Windows search peers.

   The S.o.S Add-on gathers memory and CPU usage for Splunk Web, splunkd, search
   processes, and other system resource information. For more information, see 
   the README available with each S.o.S Add-on.

   Note: The data gathered by the S.o.S Add-on counts against the daily
   licensed volume.

   Do not install S.o.S Add-on on the Splunk instance containing the S.o.S
   app. The S.o.S app already has the data input capability that is available
   from the S.o.S Add-on. 

   The S.o.S Add-ons are available at:

   http://apps.splunk.com/app/870  (for UNIX/Linux)
   http://apps.splunk.com/app/1177 (for Windows)


   IMPORTANT:  Before installing and enabling the S.o.S Add-on for Windows, 
   enable local PowerShell script execution. See Enable local PowerShell script
   execution below.


################################################################################
# WINDOWS SYSTEMS ONLY - Enable local PowerShell script execution
################################################################################

Enable local PowerShell script execution before you enable scripted inputs for
the S.o.S app, and before you install the S.o.S Add-on for Windows on Splunk 
Enterprise peer servers.

You can enable PowerShell script execution in the following ways:

  * Enable local PowerShell script execution from PowerShell.
  * Enable local PowerShell script execution with a Group Policy object.


#### Enable local PowerShell script execution from PowerShell

You can enable local PowerShell script execution directly from PowerShell. This 
method is the fastest way to get the S.o.S Add-on working if you have only a few
workstations or servers from which to gather data.

You must have administrative access to the Windows system to make changes to the
script execution policy.

To enable local PowerShell script execution from within PowerShell:

  1) Log into the Windows server as an administrator or equivalent.

  2) Open a PowerShell prompt.

  3) At the prompt, run the following command:

     Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned

     PowerShell responds with the following:

     Execution Policy Change
     The execution policy helps protect you from scripts that you do not trust.
     Changing the execution policy might expose you to the security risks 
     described in the about_Execution_Policies help topic. Do you want to 
     change the execution policy?
     [Y] Yes  [N] No  [S] Suspend  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y

  4) Type "Y" to finalize the settings change.

  5) (Optional) Disable local PowerShell script execution. Run the following
     command in another PowerShell prompt:

     Set-ExecutionPolicy Restricted

##### Enable local PowerShell script execution with a Group Policy object

If you have numerous servers from which you want to collect Splunk on Splunk
data, and they are in an Active Directory network, consider deploying a Group 
Policy object (GPO) to enable local PowerShell script execution. 

You must have administrative privileges on the domain to deploy a GPO.

To enable local PowerShell script execution using a GPO:

  1) Create a new Active Directory GPO.

  2) Open the GPO for editing.

  3) In the GPO editor, select:

     Computer Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates >
     Windows Components > Windows PowerShell

  4) Right-click Turn On Script Execution and select Edit.

  5) Click Enabled.

  6) In the Execution Policy drop-down menu, select Allow Local Scripts and
     Remote Signed Scripts.

  7) Click OK to accept the changes.

  8) Close the Group Policy Object editor to save your changes.

  9) Deploy the GPO. 


##### If you don't enable local PowerShell execution

If you do not enable PowerShell script execution, the S.o.S Add-on for Windows
does not collect data. Splunk displays an error message similar to the followingin splunkd.log:

08-12-2012 02:39:40.632 -0700 ERROR ExecProcessor - message from ""C:\Program 
Files\Splunk\etc\apps\sos\bin\powershell\ps_sos.ps1"" File C:\Program Files\
Splunk\etc\apps\sos\bin\powershell\ps_sos.ps1 cannot be loaded because the
execution of scripts is disabled on this system. Please see
"get-help about_signing" for more details.
At line:1 char:13
+ .\ps_sos.ps1 <<<<
    + CategoryInfo          : NotSpecified: (:) [], PSSecurityException
    + FullyQualifiedErrorId : RuntimeException


################################################################################
# Analyzing your Splunk Enterprise deployment with Splunk on Splunk 
################################################################################

Each view in Splunk on Splunk offers help to explain the significance of the
different charts and panels shown.

  To access the help: Click the "Learn More" button.

Splunk on Splunk contains the following views:

* Home: Provides an introduction to S.o.S

* Configuration File Viewer: Provides a layered view of Splunk configuration
  files.

* CPU/Memory Usage: Tracks the CPU and memory usage for Splunk Web, 
  splunkd, and search processes for selected hosts.

* File Descriptor Usage: Tracks file descriptor usage for splunkd and
  Splunk Web processes.

* Indexes Disk Usage and Properties: Shows disk usage of indexes across a
  distributed deployment.

* Errors: Lists errors and warning events. Contains search controls to help
  locate the source of problems.

* Warnings: Detects known problems that may exist on your Splunk instance.

* HTTP Response Times for Splunkd: Review HTTP response times for splunkd.

* Crash Log Viewer: Detects and displays recent crash logs.

* Data Inputs Overview: Provides details on data inputs and lists input errors.

* File Monitor Inputs: Provides details on file monitor data inputs.

* Indexing Performance: Detailed review of indexing performance focused on a
  single Splunk instance.

* Distributed Indexing Performance: Tracks indexing performance for indexers
  in a distributed deployment.

* Indexing and Forwarding: Shows estimates of the data volume indexed and/or
  forwarded, based on Splunk internal metrics.

* License Usage - Today: Shows license usage for the current day as well as
  a history of warnings and violations for the current license window.

* License Usage - Last 30 Days: Shows license usage for the previous 30 days,
  split by pool and/or by metadata fields.

* Cluster Master View: Provides information about a Splunk cluster from the
  cluster master perspective.

* Index Replication Information: Provides information on index replication
  activity.

* Bucket Fix-up Activity: Shows the current status of bucket repair work
  orderd by the Index Replication framework.

* Cluster Service Activity: Shows service job activity for synchronizing 
  nodes of a cluster.

* Search Activity: Provides deep insight into instance-wide search workload,
  expressed as search concurrency, resource usage or aggregate search run time.

* Scheduler Activity: Shows a variety of performance and usage metrics for 
  the search scheduler.

* Dispatch Directory Inspector: Provides details on search artifacts, including
  breakdown of disk usage footprint.

* Search Usage Patterns: Provides a statistical breakdown of search usage
  patterns.

* Search-head Pooling Performance: Provides performance and resource usage
  metrics specific to search-head pooling environments.



################################################################################
# About the Splunk on Splunk app
################################################################################

Splunk on Splunk is your app!

We heard you! Splunk on Splunk has been built in response to the needs and
requests of Splunk users. Let us know what you want in the next version!

To request features, provide feedback, or report issues, send email to
sos@splunk.com.

S.o.S has been developed primarily by the Splunk Support team, with the help of
Splunk Dev, Splunk Docs, and Sideview LLC (http://sideviewapps.com).
